# Contributing to Riddler

  The following is a set of guidelines for contributing to Riddler and its packages, which are hosted in the [ Organization](https://github.com/riddler) on GitHub.
  These are mostly guidelines, not rules.
  Use your best judgment, and feel free to propose changes to this document in a pull request.

  Much of this is based on [Atom's Contribution Guidelines][atom-contributing].

#### Table Of Contents

[Code of Conduct](#code-of-conduct)

[Styleguides](#styleguides)
  * [Issue Titles](#issue-titles)
  * [Git Commit Messages](#git-commit-messages)

## Code of Conduct

  This project and everyone participating in it is governed by the [Riddler Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
  By participating, you are expected to uphold this code.

## Styleguides

### Issue Titles

  We see each Issue as a request to change something in a project.
  Issues can be discussed and refined, and at some point may be accepted.
  If you would like to change something in the project, start with an Issue.

  Once accepted an Issue is a command to change something in the project.
  Because of this **all Issue titles use the [imperative mood][imperative-mood]**.

  We try to stick to the following types of changes:
  * `Add` for new features
  * `Change` for changes to existing functionality
  * `Deprecate` for soon-to-be removed features
  * `Remove` for now removed features
  * `Fix` for any bug fixes

### Git Commit Messages

  Issues are requests (commands) to do something in a project and use the **[imperative mood][imperative-mood]**.
  Some actor (most likely a person) will then perform the work needed to accomplish the request.
  Each portion of work will be recorded with a message stating what it does to the project using **the [simple present tense][simple-present-tense] ([active voice][active-voice])** where the commit is the subject.

  We recognize this is different from what [Git does][git-commit-guidelines].

#### Git Commit Summary

  From [Git Commit Guidelines][git-commit-guidelines]:

  Messages should start with a single line that’s no more than about 50 characters and that describes the changeset concisely, followed by a blank line, followed by a more detailed explanation.

  * Complete the sentance "This commit [Commit Summary]"
  * Use the [simple present tense][simple-present-tense] ([active voice][active-voice]), NOT the imperative mood ("Adds feature" not "Added feature")
  * Capitalized
  * Limit to about 50 characters
  * More than a single word
  * Describe the changeset concisely
  * Does NOT end with a period
  * Does NOT reword what files are changed (this information is already present in the commit)
    * Do: "**Documents project installation**"
    * Don't: "Updates README"

#### Git Commit Message

  * Separated from Summary by one blank line
  * Use the [simple present tense][simple-present-tense] ([active voice][active-voice]), NOT the imperative mood ("Adds feature" not "Added feature")
  * Limit lines to about 72 characters
  * Reference issues and pull requests liberally after the first line

#### Git Commit Template

  This is a template Git Commit Message modified from [Tim Pope's original template][git-message-template]:

    Capitalized, short (50 chars or less) summary

    More detailed explanatory text, if necessary.  Wrap it to about 72
    characters or so.  In some contexts, the first line is treated as the
    subject of an email and the rest of the text as the body.  The blank
    line separating the summary from the body is critical (unless you omit
    the body entirely); tools like rebase can get confused if you run the
    two together.

    Write your commit messages in the simple present tense (active voice):
    "Fixes bug" and not "Fixed bug" or "Fix bug." This convention does NOT
    match up with commit messages generated by commands like git merge and
    git revert, but the messages make more sense when generating a
    changelog.

    Further paragraphs come after blank lines.

    * Bullet points are okay, too

    * Typically a hyphen or asterisk is used for the bullet, followed by a
      single space, with blank lines in between, but conventions vary here

    * End by referencing issues and pull requests

    Relates GH-1


[atom-contributing]: https://github.com/atom/.github/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md
[active-voice]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Active_voice
[imperative-mood]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Imperative_mood
[simple-present-tense]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simple_present
[git-commit-guidelines]: https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Distributed-Git-Contributing-to-a-Project#_commit_guidelines
[git-message-template]: https://tbaggery.com/2008/04/19/a-note-about-git-commit-messages.html
